Top 43 Docker Interview Questions and Answers

Following are frequently asked Docker job interview questions for fresher as well as experienced DevOps engineers.

1. What is Docker?

Docker is an open-source lightweight containerization technology. It has gained widespread popularity in the cloud and application packaging world. It allows you to automate the deployment of applications in lightweight and portable containers.

2. What are the advantages of using Docker container?

Here, are a major advantage of using Docker.

Offers an efficient and easy initial set up
Allows you to describe your application lifecycle in detail
Simple configuration and interacts with Docker Compose.
Documentation provides every bit of information.
3. What are the important features of Docker?

Here are the essential features of Docker:

Easy Modeling
Version control
Placement/Affinity
Application Agility
Developer Productivity
Operational Efficiencies
4. What are the main drawbacks of Docker?

Some notable drawbacks of Docker are:

Doesn't provide a storage option
Offer a poor monitoring option.
No automatic rescheduling of inactive Nodes
Complicated automatic horizontal scaling set up
5. What is Docker image?

The Docker image help to create Docker containers. You can create the Docker image with the build command. Due to this, it creates a container that starts when it begins to run. Every docker images are stored in the Docker registry.

6. What is Docker Engine?

Docker daemon or Docker engine represents the server. The docker daemon and the clients should be run on the same or remote host, which can communicate through command-line client binary and full RESTful API.

7. Explain Registries

There are two types of registry is

Public Registry
Private Registry
Docker's public registry is called Docker hub, which allows you to store images privately. In Docker hub, you can store millions of images.

8. What command should you run to see all running container in Docker?

$ docker ps
9. Write the command to stop the docker container

$ sudo docker stop container name
10. What is the command to run the image as a container?

$ sudo docker run -i -t alpine /bin/bash
11. What are the common instruction in Dockerfile?




The common instruction in Dockerfile are: FROM, LABEL, RUN, and CMD.

12. What is memory-swap flag?

Memory-swap is a modified flag that only has meaning if- memory is also set. Swap allows the container to write express memory requirements to disk when the container has exhausted all the RAM which is available to it.

13. Explain Docker Swarm?

Docker Swarm is native gathering for docker which helps you to a group of Docker hosts into a single and virtual docker host. It offers the standard docker application program interface.

14. How can you monitor the docker in production environments?

Docker states and Docker Events are used to monitoring docker in the production environment.

15. What the states of Docker container?

Important states of Docker container are:

Running
Paused
Restarting
Exited
16. What is Docker hub?

Docker hub is a cloud-based registry that which helps you to link to code repositories. It allows you to build, test, store your image in Docker cloud. You can also deploy the image to your host with the help of Docker hub.

17. What is Virtualization?

Virtualization is a method of logically dividing mainframes to allow multiple applications to run simultaneously.

However, this scenario changed when companies and open source communities were able to offer a method of handling privileged instructions. It allows multiple OS to run simultaneously on a single x86 based system.

18. What is Hypervisor?

The hypervisor allows you to create a virtual environment in which the guest virtual machines operate. It controls the guest systems and checks if the resources are allocated to the guests as necessary.

19. Explain Docker object labels

Docker object labels is a method for applying metadata to docker objects including, images, containers, volumes, network, swam nodes, and services.
